>> Hello, I'm
Georgia Shakti-Hill,
and I want to welcome you
to "Living in Balance."
We're going to be talking
with a man today who
is a researcher after truth.
We're going to be
talking about prophecy.
looking to the sky.
In fact, the name of this
show is "Signs in the Sky."
Come join us.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The author, Adrian Gilbert,
is sharing with us today
the wisdom that he has gained
over the years of research
that he has done.
You have probably heard of
his million-selling "Orion
Mystery."
And today we're
going to be talking
about all of the information
that he has gathered
from "Signs in the Sky."
That is the name of the
book, and it is research
that he has done
about the prophecies.
And so I want to
welcome Adrian Gilbert.
>> How do you do?
>> It's wonderful
to have you here.
And you're all the
way from the UK.
>> That's right.
>> So you're here in America
to tell us more about--
as I said, a
researcher for truth
is how you describe yourself.
And I like that because you
really have done your homework.
That is what you do.
>> Yes, it's hard work
as well, I can tell you.
>> And you write books about it.
And they're really very,
very good selling books.
>> Well, most of them have
been best-selling, in top 10,
you know, in the UK, so yes.
>> And here too.
We've-- the prophecy,
though, is the subject.
Prophecy.
OK.
>> Right.
>> And I said,
you're not a prophet.
And you said, no,
but I have read
about the history of the
different civilizations
and the work they're doing.
So this "Signs in the
Sky" is timely now
because we're at the end of
some ages, according to--
>> Well, that's right.
You see, people have heard
this term, "Age of Aquarius."
You know, the dawning
of the Age of Aquarius.
We've had this with us for
30 years or more, haven't we?
But nobody really
has got a handle on,
when does this actually start?
What does it really mean?
What does it really signify?
And that's kind of
been my research work
over the past at least 20
years, looking for the signs,
trying to understand the
prophecies in the Bible
as well as in other
places in the world,
for instance, the
Mayan prophecies,
and to understand what those
things mean for us today.
>> Well, but we've come to
a point that you're calling
the opening of a stargate.
>> Yes.
>> Now, that means that this is
a point in time that has been
prophesized?
>> Exactly.
Actually, I got the term
"stargate" from ancient Egypt.
They had a belief that
over the hand of Orion--
I'll be talking more
about Orion shortly--
over the hand of
Orion, there was
a sort of gateway in the
sky through which souls
could come and go.
And this I found
to be absolutely
at the root of everything.
>> OK, and this was
ancient Egyptians.
>> This was ancient
Egyptian, always, yes.
>> So stargate, then, is their
terminology for that place
where our souls can enter.
>> They describe it.
They actually have a
picture of a little man
holding a star in his hand.
But that Egyptian star
has a double meaning.
It means star as a hieroglyph,
but that hieroglyph also
means gateway.
So he is actually holding
the stargate in his hand.
>> Ah.
Now, the best-selling
book that you co-authored,
"The Orion Mystery,"
this was about--
and tell us about Orion.
>> Right.
In "The Orion Mystery," which
I'm sure many of your viewers
will have read, we put
forth the then-novel theory
that the pyramids of
Egypt, the major pyramids
of the Fourth
Dynasty, were built
to represent the
stars of Orion, which
is that brilliant constellation
in the sky that you see.
Like a great big man there,
holding a club, with his belt,
with three big
stars in his belt.
Well, we put forward the theory
that the stars of Orion's belt
were symbolized by
the pyramids of Giza.
And that wasn't just
an empty thought.
It was actually my co-author,
Robert Bauval, who coined this.
And it was because
we knew that there
were shafts running from that--
from the Great Pyramid, which
is one of those star pyramids,
pointing directly
at the position
Orion's belt crossed in the sky.
As it went across from the east,
across the south to the west,
it crossed that shaft.
And there are also texts
called pyramid texts
in some of the
later pyramids which
tell us how the pharaoh
wants to go to the stars.
He wanted to become
a star of Orion.
So we began to see how this
whole thing worked together.
And we knew also that
the Orion constellation
was considered to be
connected with Osiris,
the god of the dead.
In fact, it was his star form.
So the pharaoh was
going to join Osiris.
He was going to become one with
Osiris in the sky with Orion.
So we could see a whole
pattern forming here.
>> Now, as you
did this research,
and you said you spent
20 years with it,
do you find it just
absolutely fascinating?
>> It gets deeper and deeper.
I mean, it's taken over
my life, to be honest.
>> Because, you know, we
wonder about these ancient
civilizations, which they seem
to have been so civilized,
and they almost seem to
have disappeared in a sense.
And are these ages, then,
that ended with them?
>> Well, this is
interesting you say this,
because I see these pyramids,
these relics from the past
as being put there to pass
a message onwards, knowing.
That the people
who built them knew
there was going to
be periods of chaos.
And so they coded these things
for us later generations
to read.
They made them huge so
they would last the time.
So size is very important.
>> And they have.
And we--
>> They have, yeah.
>> Very intriguing, because
there are different theories
about it.
But I think you said
one of your co-authors
had done research for, again,
almost a lifetime dedicated
to this type of research too.
So it does fascinate
us, does it not?
>> Oh, I mean, totally.
I mean, I meet so
many people who
come to me with different
theories about the pyramids,
how they were built, why.
You know, everything from
alien spacecraft landing
strips to water pumps
to I don't know what.
People have all sorts of
theories about the pyramids.
>> Now, speaking
of pyramids too,
we've talked about
the Egyptian pyramids,
but what about the connection
to the Mayan pyramids too?
Because people
wonder about that.
And are they not
of the same era?
>> Well, the Mayan
pyramids, of course,
are built very much later.
But there's the same kind of
feeling about them in a way.
People built these
magnificent monuments
as part and parcel
of their religion.
They're not just tombs
for dead ancestors.
They are so living
buildings that
are part and parcel of the
people's religious life
at the time they were
built. And they're connected
with the stars as well.
>> That's what I
was going to say.
They're always
connected with a time
of the year, a perfect
flow of energy,
like the serpent
at Chichen Itza.
>> That's right.
I've seen that, where the
shadow serpent comes down
the balustrade.
But also they're connected--
the ones in Mesoamerica--
with the Pleiades
constellation and the positions
of the Pleiades in the sky.
So people have the same kind
of feeling about the stars
and using stars to
measure our time.
>> But from your perspective--
I mean, you are studying
ancient prophecy,
and you're trying to find--
you're trying to
interpret it for us now.
Now, there are time frames
that we're looking at.
The millennium, of
course, is the Christian.
>> Yeah.
>> OK.
But there's also the 2012.
Is that the Mayan?
>> The Mayan calendar supposedly
will end at the winter solstice
in 2012.
Now, that's very important,
and it brings me back
to this thing about stargates.
You see, in the ancient world--
and it seems to apply right
through the world, East
and West--
there is a conception
that there are
two points in the sky
where there are gateways,
where souls could come and go.
And these points corresponded
with the position
where the ecliptic--
that's the imaginary
line that the sun
follows through the zodiac as
it goes round through the year.
The two places where the
ecliptic crosses over the Milky
Way-- so you have
this band of stars,
the Milky Way, and the
ecliptic crossing over.
And in the middle
point of that--
there's one in the north
and one in the south.
The two positions it
crosses were the stargates.
Now, one of these stargates
is over the hand of Orion.
He's sort of reaching up to it.
And that's why I say when the
star is sitting in his hand,
he's reaching up
to the stargate.
The other one is over the tail
of Scorpio and in Sagittarius.
And the sun will
be at that point,
at that stargate at the winter
solstice in 2012, the very day
when the calendar finishes--
the Mayan calendar.
>> But now, the
important thing--
and this is what I asked
you before we went on air.
You're not saying
the world is coming
to an end with these things.
>> I don't believe so.
I mean, I certainly hope so--
hope not.
I believe it's going to
symbolize the next stage
in our evolution of mankind.
And it's going to
symbolize awakening up
to who we really
are, which is spirits
living in physical bodies.
Are we-- for the most part,
we're not conscious of this.
We think of ourselves as
just being clever animals.
I don't see us that way.
I see our body as having
evolved from the animal kingdom.
But what truly makes us human
is being something else.
We call it the soul.
Call it the spirit,
what you like,
it's that divine spark in
us that makes us different.
>> And you have found, then,
from the work that you have
done, all this
research and so forth,
that you're very comfortable
with the idea that in ancient
times they knew that this would
be that point in time when that
shift in consciousness
would come.
>> Well, you see,
the ancient times,
the people's religion was guided
by what they call a hermetic
principle--
as above, so below.
So they were very
keyed into the idea
of what's happening
in the heavens is
mirrored on the ground.
But they were also
into another idea
in their philosophy,
their self development,
which was a type
of yoga where they
sought to connect themselves
with what they call a higher
mind.
And those who were
so connected had
what they called the
gnosis, the knowledge.
And that's the whole basis
of the Egyptian mysticism,
to become like
Hermes, the first man
to have achieved that
level of initiation,
to have been joined
with the higher mind.
And that's what they all sought.
And those who were
would have been
guided by the higher mind, which
you could call the mind of God.
So it might not be
that they consciously
understood these things,
but through the subconscious
they were able to work with it.
And time seems to have not
been of any problem in this.
>> OK, so we have
this knowledge, then,
from those who connected
with the higher self,
connected with the mind
of God, for example.
>> Yeah.
>> OK.
Well, we've looked a
little bit at Egypt.
We've looked just a
little bit at the Mayans.
We're going to take a break,
and when we come back,
we're going to go to both the
biblical prophecy, Jerusalem,
Mesopotamia.
Because in every
civilization, there
is a point where there is a
ship that comes, is there not?
>> That's exactly right.
>> And you have put this
together for us very well,
so we do appreciate.
[LAUGHS] And what we like
to do is take a break,
and when we come
back, Adrian Gilbert
will share with us more of
the information from "Signs
in the Sky," and also this
concept of the stargate.
So if you'll stay tuned,
we will be right back.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
And if you are just joining
us, I'm Georgia Shakti-Hill,
and the subject is prophecy.
And we are looking at a
book, "Signs in the Sky,"
by Adrian Gilbert.
He is a prolific author who has
done great amount of research
in the field.
And one of the things we wanted
to clarify, "Signs in the Sky"
is not a book about
astrology and horoscope,
but it is about
astronomy, astrology.
Because it is the
signs in the sky are
what are definitive to
give us a time frame?
>> Exactly.
It's where you're looking at
the stars and the positions
of the sun and moon
and so forth as forming
a kind of clock face,
clicking out the years,
clicking out the
centuries, the millennia.
And it's nothing
to do with what you
would call popular astrology.
>> No.
No.
But we are going to
talk about prophecy,
is what we're talking about.
And now we're going to go
to the biblical prophecy,
because we have looked
at the Egyptians.
We have looked at the Mayans.
And now what about the
Judeo-Christian approach?
>> Right.
Well, this is very,
very exciting.
And this is-- it was new ground
for me when I went to Jerusalem
a couple of years ago, and
the penny first dropped that
the symbol of the--
of man in the sky,
Orion, is actually
to be interpreted as Adam.
Adam in the sky.
In the Judeo-Christian
tradition, they have something
called Kabbalah, the early sort
of the secret form of Judaism.
>> Yes, it's the mystical
aspect of the Hebrew tradition.
>> The mystical
aspect of Judaism.
>> Yes.
>> And they talk about the
figure of the Adam Kadmon,
the first man.
And they describe him
as composed of lights,
of spheres of light.
And I suddenly realized
that what they were really
talking about is Orion.
And it's the movements of Orion
over the thousands of years
which map out time.
And if I could just
explain that for a moment.
>> Yes, uh-huh.
>> Because of-- the Earth has
several different motions.
It goes around daily,
giving us day and night.
It goes around the sun,
giving us the year.
But it also has a
slight wobbling motion,
like a top running
down, which gives
us what's called a
procession of the equinoxes.
And what that means,
put very simply,
is that the pole of the
Earth is kind of doing
a little circle in the sky.
But it takes 26,000 years
to make one complete circle.
So it's a very slow movement.
And the effect of that is to
make the constellations move
relative in the sky,
how high they rise to
and how low they set,
over periods of time.
Now, interestingly,
around about 10,800 BC,
the Orion constellation was at
its lowest point in the sky.
And what that meant
was that the stargate--
I was telling you-- above his
hand, was at its lowest point.
And the sun would sit there
at the winter solstice
on the shortest day of the year.
Ever since then, it's been
drifting further north.
And this has had some very
interesting consequences.
The belt of Orion is
now right underneath
the celestial equator,
which is the sky
equivalent of our equator.
And it would never
actually cross
that before it starts
going down again.
But at Jerusalem--
I hope this isn't sort
of confusing to you.
>> That's OK.
>> At Jerusalem, if you were
standing on where the temple
is, or was, looking eastwards,
you would now see the belt
of Orion rising over
the Mount of Olives,
which is where Jesus ascended to
Heaven from, or so we're told.
>> Now, you do
have in your book--
and there is a picture of
the Orion over Jerusalem.
>> That's exactly it.
>> And maybe we can
get a close-up of that.
We'll see.
>> There you can see the
Church of the Ascension with
Orion's belt rising above it--
>> Yes.
>> --on the Mount of Olives.
>> OK.
And you said it was the summer
solstice of the year 2000
is very significant.
>> It's especially significant
for various reasons.
First of all, there
is a great gathering
of the planets happening
in the year 2000.
In May, 2000, they
would be together,
about the 4th of May,
all seven of the planets
of the ancients, which
includes the sun and moon.
>> Yes.
>> And then on the 21st of June,
which is the summer solstice,
the sun would be over the hand
of Orion at that stargate,
with the other planets nearby.
>> OK, now, what does
that mean, though,
that stargate at
that exact position?
Is that when souls
would come and go?
>> This seems to be the belief.
And if you read the
Book of Revelations,
it tells us how St. John has a
vision of this angelic being.
The first and the last,
he calls itself, the Alpha
and the Omega.
And he describes
this angelic being.
He wears a belt.
His face glows like the
sun at its strength.
Well, the sun is at its
strength at the summer solstice.
He holds seven
stars in his hand.
Well, the stars or the planets
pass over the hand of Orion.
And later on, he's described
as standing amidst the seven
candlesticks, which
are the seven stars--
the sun and moon, Mercury,
Venus, Mars, Jupiter,
and Saturn.
>> Right.
>> So we have this
description of this very day.
>> Aha.
And so your research has brought
you to that interpretation.
And Revelations
has been attempted
to be interpreted by many,
but this would make sense.
And from your research,
this has clarity for you.
So this, then, would
be a very special time,
the summer solstice of 2000.
>> Absolutely.
And for another
reason, for Christians
it's especially interesting.
You know, I sort of
was very interested
about the life of Jesus.
And, you know, it's possible
to work out the exact days
that certain things happened.
We know that the baptism
happened in 26 AD.
We can pretty well work
out pretty certainly
that the crucifixion
took place in 29 AD.
And the Last Supper
was the Feast
of the Passover, which took
place at the first full moon
after the equinox.
You don't need to
know these details,
but I'm just telling you.
From that, we can work out
where the sun was on that day.
Then on Easter Sunday,
the first Easter.
And I did this.
And then I counted on 40 days
to when the ascension should
take place.
And do you know what?
The sun was right over the
hand of Orion on that day.
>> Aha.
[LAUGHS]
>> And he says he's going to
the right hand of his father.
And the sun, symbolically, is
over the right hand of Orion.
These things seem too much
to be a coincidence to me.
>> OK.
So your research takes
you to that point.
>> Takes me to that.
>> So Orion is very
important in all of this.
>> It seems to be this great
symbol of man in the sky.
>> There is another
place we need to go back,
and that's to Mesopotamia.
So now, what did you
gather in your information
when you went farther
back, then, to Mesopotamia?
>> Right.
Well, I was very interested in
the whole story of the three
wise men, the three
kings, which turns up
at the beginning of the Gospels.
And you have to
ask yourself, why
is there a story about pagan
wise men coming to Bethlehem?
And why has that been
put in the Bible?
And I started researching
what I could find out
about the people who lived
in that area of Mesopotamia
at the time of Jesus
and just before.
And I found there were some
very interesting remains
in a place called Commagene,
which is now southeast Turkey,
by the river Euphrates.
And I found there was an
enormously deep shaft there
at a place that a king
had built as a shrine
for his dead father.
And nobody knew what
the shaft was for.
It's 158 meters long.
It's angled at 35 degrees.
And I took a compass
with me, and I found
it was pointing exactly west.
And I realized that
there should be
two days in the year when
the sun should shine down
that shaft, exactly a
ray, down to the bottom.
And someone could be
standing at the bottom
and say, hey, it's
the right day.
And from the inscriptions
above this shaft,
it tells us it was there
for the birthday of the king
and also for his dead father.
And I realized that
one day corresponded
when the sun was in Leo, next
to a especially bright star
called Regulus, the king star.
And the other day it
was pointing exactly
again at this stargate
over the hand of Orion.
So again, we had the
same idea coming out.
>> Yes.
OK, so I want you now to
tell us again for now,
for us, what about this?
What should we know,
and what should we
be awakening to, aware of, or
what should we be prepared for?
>> Right.
Well, I understand that these
ancient peoples understood
and knew things about
time and about the sky
and about the position of man
on Earth that we've forgotten.
But they coded some
of this information
into their monuments.
And it's down to us
now, using our computers
and our other means to decode
these monuments to see,
to refine this knowledge.
What it's pointing
at, to my mind,
is that we're coming to the end
of a great 13,000-year period.
Right?
There's been other 13,000-year
periods before that,
but each period marks a major
change in the development
of mankind.
And we're coming up to
another major change, which
might be on the level of the
beginnings of written script,
for instance.
Something really
major like that which
will take us to the next
stage in our evolution
as a species on Earth.
And I hope it's going
to involve the opening
up of our clairvoyance,
development of our higher
powers, our higher knowledge,
and our remembrance of who
we really are, which is
what seems to be so lacking
in our modern world.
So that's kind of how I see it.
>> You know, I like
that, I really do.
And you know, some people
think of these changes
and the end of these ages as
being a doomsday kind of thing.
But I love that-- your approach
to it, that it is an awakening.
And how wonderful
if we remember--
>> Well, I hope so.
I mean--
>> --those gifts we have.
>> If things happen,
well, they happen.
But you can do
nothing about that.
But what you can do
is about yourself
and your attitude towards
life and your attitude
towards the universe
in which we live.
And that's how I
try to approach it.
>> We appreciate that.
Thank you so much.
If you would like to be in
touch with Adrian Gilbert,
and you know we always love
to hear from you, stay tuned.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
You have taken this journey with
us today, Adrian Gilbert and I,
and gone back.
And we've looked at the
Mayans and the Egyptians
in biblical times, Mesopotamia.
And you know, I think the
best thing that he has said
is that there is a
shift in consciousness.
It's coming.
It is a time where we can
awaken to who we really are,
spiritual beings--
and I love that part--
with our own intuitive
remembrances too.
Our clairvoyance
can be awakened.
Until next time, I'm
Georgia Shakti-Hill.
May you be well,
happy, and peaceful.
[MUSIC PLAYING]